
Thank you for taking the time to review my CRAN submission. My responses
are inline, below.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Please omit the redundant "for R" from the title.

Thanks; I have done so.


> Please add \value to .Rd files and explain the functions results in the
> documentation.

I've intentionally left the return value of most functions undocumented, as
most functions in `renv` are called for their side effects -- that is, they
change some project-specific state. I believe that I have made this otherwise
clear in the documentation (e.g. both in function documentation and vignettes).


> \dontrun{} should be only used if the example really cannot be executed 
> (e.g. because of missing additional software, missing API keys, ...) by 
> the user. That's why wrapping examples in \dontrun{} adds the comment 
> ("# Not run:") as a warning for the user.

In general, the example code in `renv` shouldn't be run, due to the side effects
these functions have on the user's project. Note that these side effects are
intentional and are part of the way `renv` works -- similar in spirit to how
`install.packages()` is called to install an R package, and not for its return
value.


> You write information messages to the console that cannot be easily 
> suppressed.
> Rather use message()/warning()  or if(verbose)cat(..) if you really have 
> to write text to the console.
> (except for print() and summary() functions)
> Seems not necessary for most functions?

Because of the way `renv` works (it mutates project state), I believe it's
important for the package to inform the user of what changes `renv` has made
whenever a function is invoked. Users can suppress printing by setting
`options(renv.verbose = FALSE)` if they so desire, or use `capture.output()`.

`message()` does not feel appropriate because it always writes to stderr,
which is normally used for error output as opposed to regular information.
In addition, I believe `warning()` is normally used to report problems
encountered during code execution; the output generated by `renv` is normally
just to inform the user what actions `renv` is taking.


> Please unwrap the examples if they are executable in < 5 sec, or replace 
> \dontrun{} with \donttest{}.

I've wrapped the examples with \donttest{}, as I don't think the example code
should be run (either when requested by `example()`, or during testing). Please
note that all exported `renv` functions are tested in `renv`'s test suite, and
I've made efforts to ensure that the tests run without mutating anything within
the user's home directory.


> Please make sure to not modify the user's global environment or the 
> user's home filespace.

Functions in the `renv` package will mutate files in the user's project
directory (e.g. `renv::snapshot()` creates or updates the file `renv.lock`),
and this is intentional and documented.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thanks,
Kevin
